CS475 HOMEWORK 3 README

The following are the plugboard and reflector keys I used during testing and development.

plugboard: VH1XK0OBULQRF3J2CPWMD47NYG5TI8EA6Z9S

reflector: RE0KAWGLYSTF9ZOH36CI1PB4UD5MN28QJV7X

enigma.cpp - 

To compile the program, use the makefile I created by entering "make build". Then execute the compiled program.

Global Variables:
vector<char> alphabet - A list of characters in the order A-Z, 0-9
vector<char> rightWheelStart - Starting position of the characters in the right wheel of the Enigma machine
vector<char> middleWheelStart - Same as right wheel but for middle wheel characters
vector<char> leftWheelStart - Same as right wheel but for left wheel characters

vector<char> rotateWheel(vector<char> wheel):
Rotates the characters in wheel by taking the character at the end and moving it to the start of list.
Returns

string encrypt(string msg, vector<char> plugboard, vector<char> reflector):
Encrypts msg based on how an Enigma machine works. It does this by finding the position of each character in
alphabet and then getting the character in the same position in plugboard. It repeats this process through the
right, middle, and left wheels, and then the reflector. Once it passes through the reflector, the character comes
back through the wheels and plugboard, but it instead searches for the position of the character in the left, middle, 
right wheel, or plugboard depending on which part it is currently in and then finds the character in that position
in the alphabet. Once it passes through the plugboard, the encrypted character is added to the encrypted message and
once all characters have been encrypted the message is returned.

string decrypt(string msg, vector<char> plugboard, vector<char> reflector):
decrypt works the same as encrypt, except for the reflector. When decrypting, the reflector part first checks for the
position of the current character in the reflector key, then retrieves the character in the same position in alphabet
unlike encrypt which does this the other way around. This function returns the original message in msg.

int main:
When the program starts, you will first be asked to give the keys for the plugboard and reflector. They must be
36 characters long, otherwise the program will exit. Once you do that, you will be asked to choose which of the
following 3 options you want to choose:

1. Encrypt Message - Lets you enter a message that it will encrypt and give back to you. Message can only contain
characters A-Z, 0-9. Entering any other characters will display a message and send you back to the options menu.

2. Decrypt Message - Similar to the first option, except you enter an encrypted message and the program will give
you the original message back.

3. Exit - Exits the program.